So what I'm going to try and do here is try and remove some of the hype and turns causing confusion
and kind of group visions of software defined networking into different compartments.
So the first vision and the original vision will define as open SDM.
This is based on the original work at Stanford and uses the open flow protocol.
The organization that's driving this today is the open networking Foundation.
It defines software defined networking as the separation of the control plane and data plane and later
in this presentation I'll explain what that actually means implementations of software defined networking
controllers include open daylight or audio on us NOx pox floodlight and others including commercial
controllers from the likes of HP and others.
I'm creating multiple courses to explain each of these visions or examples of software defined networking.
So have a look on the genius 3 Web site for more courses where I do deep dives into the details and
nitty gritty of each of these visions of SDM in the next vision is software defined networking via overlays.
And the most famous example of this is probably NSX from VM way.
As you can see in this video Martin Casado works at VM way his company knows Sera was purchased by VM
way a few years ago for over a billion dollars and VM we're now advocates a virtual network overlaid
a cross a physical network.
We have the concept of a underlay network which are the physical network devices and we have a virtual
network that can automatically be deployed across the physical network.
This uses protocols like V X LAN and envy jury.
Another example of this is New Age networks which have a product for very high scale multi datacenter
multi hypervisor Virtual Networks a third vision or definition of software defined networking is what's
called Bright boxes or white boxes.
So white box SDM examples of companies that are involved here include picker 8 and Cumulus networks.
Why run proprietary operating systems tied to proprietary hardware.
Why not run an operating system that can be installed on multiple vendor devices.
So in this example you could have a physical switch and today as an example you may want to run one
operating system but next week you may want to replace it with a different operating system.
And that's what these vendors allow you to do.
Don't buy proprietary hardware proprietary operating systems and proprietary features rather by switches
that are not tied to a specific vendor.
Another example that kind of fits in this is the facebook open compute switches such as Six Pack and
wedge.